Improve llvm not found error (#701)
numba/llvmlite: docs/source/admin-guide/install.rst

Installation
==============

The Numba/llvmlite stack consists of the following major components:

* *Numba* is the compiler package, this depends on llvmlite.
* *llvmlite* is a lightweight binding package to the LLVM APIs, it depends on LLVM.
* *LLVM*  is the JIT compiler framework for producing executable code from various
  inputs.

All components must be compiled in order to be used. And, since each component
on the stack depends on the previous one, you need to compile LLVM in order to

> compile llvmlite in order to compile Numba. The LLVM package has a significant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compile llvmlite in order to compile Numba. The LLVM package is a significant
```

size and may take significant time (magnitude, roughly an hour) and skill to
compile depending on the platform.

Pre-built binaries
==================

> As mentioned above, Building LLVM for llvmlite is challenging, so we *strongly*
> recommend installing a binary package where we have built and tested everything
> for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned above, building LLVM for llvmlite is challenging. Installing a binary
package that has been built and tested is *strongly* recommend.
```

Official Conda packages are available in the Anaconda_ distribution::

    conda install llvmlite

Development releases are built from the Git master branch and uploaded to
the Numba_ development channel on `Anaconda Cloud <https://anaconda.org/numba>`_::

    conda install -c numba/label/dev llvmlite

Binary wheels are also available for installation from PyPI_::

    pip install llvmlite

> Development releases for binary wheels are not made available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Development releases of binary wheels are not made available.
```

> Contrary to what you might expect, the llvmlite packages built by the Numba
> maintainers do *not* use any LLVM shared libraries that may be present on the
> system, and/or in the Conda environment. The parts of LLVM required by llvmlite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contrary to what might be expected, the llvmlite packages built by the Numba
maintainers do *not* use any LLVM shared libraries that may be present on the
system, and/or in the Conda environment. The parts of LLVM required by llvmlite
```

> are statically linked at build time.  As a result, installing llvmlite from a
> binary package does not also require the end user to install LLVM.  (For more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are statically linked at build time.  As a result, installing llvmlite from a
binary package from the Numba channel does not also require the end user to
install LLVM.  (For more
```

details on the reasoning behind this, see: :ref:`faq_why_static`). Note however

> also that llvmlite packages compiled by other parties, e.g. conda-forge may
> split this into and ``llvmlite`` and ``llvm`` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
also that llvmlite packages compiled by other parties, e.g. conda-forge may
split this into and ``llvmlite`` and ``llvm`` package and link dynamically.
```

Conda packages:
---------------

The Numba maintainers ship to the Numba channel:

  * Numba packages
  * llvmlite packages
  * llvmdev packages (this contains a build of LLVM)

The llvmdev packages are not needed at runtime by llvmlite packages as
llvmlite's dynamic libraries are statically linked (see above) at compile time
against LLVM through the dependency on the ``llvmdev`` package.

The Anaconda distribution and conda-forge channels ship:

  * Numba packages
  * llvmlite packages
  * LLVM split into runtime libraries (package called ``llvm``) and compile time
    libraries/headers etc this contains a build of LLVM (package called
    ``llvmdev``)

At compile time the ``llvmdev`` and ``llvm`` packages are used to build llvmlite and
llvmlite's dynamic libraries are dynamically linked against the libraries in the
``llvm`` meta-package. This means at runtime ``llvmlite`` depends on the ``llvm``
package which has the LLVM shared libraries in it (it's actually a package
called ``libllvm`` that contains the DSOs, but the ``llvm`` package is referred to
so as to get the ``run_exports``).

> Using `pip`
> -----------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using ``pip``
-------------
```

The Numba maintainers ship binary wheels:

  * Numba wheels (``x86*`` architectures)
  * llvmlite wheels (``x86*`` architectures)

Note that the llvmlite wheels are statically linked against LLVM, as per the
conda packages on the Numba channel. This mitigates the need for a LLVM based

> binary wheel. Not also that this, as of version 0.36 does not include the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
binary wheel. Note also that this, as of version 0.36, does not include the
```

> ``aarch64`` architectures, for example installation on a RaspberryPis is not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``aarch64`` architectures, for example installation on a Raspberry Pi is not
```

supported.

The Numba maintainers ship an ``sdist`` for:

  * Numba
  * llvmlite

Note that there is no ``sdist`` provided for LLVM. If you try and build ``llvmlite``
from ``sdist`` you will need to bootstrap the package with your own appropriate
LLVM.

> How this ends up being a problem.

Reviewer: Should this be a sub-title?

Author: probably, but then the later `Things to "fix" it...` should be one also, perhaps?

Author: done

1. If you are on an unsupported architecture (i.e. not ``x86*``) or unsupported
   Python version for binary wheels (e.g. Python alphas) then ``pip`` will try and
   build Numba from ``sdist`` which in turn will try and build ``llvmlite`` from
   ``sdist``. This will inevitably fail as the ``llvmlite`` source distribution
   needs an appropriate LLVM installation to build.
2. If you are using ``pip < 19.0`` then ``manylinux2010`` wheels will not
   install and you end up in the situation in 1. i.e. something unsupported so
   building from ``sdist``.

Historically, this issues has manifested itself as the following error
message, which included here verbatim for future reference::

    FileNotFoundError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'llvm-config'

Things to "fix" it...

1. If you are using ``pip < 19.0`` and on ``x86*``, then update it if you can, this will
   let you use the ``manylinux2010`` binary wheels.

> 2. If you are on an unsupported architecture, for example RaspberryPis, please

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If you are on an unsupported architecture, for example Raspberry Pi, please
```

   use ``conda`` if you have that available.

3. Otherwise: you will probably need to build from source, this means providing
   an LLVM. If you have conda available you could use this to bootstrap the

>    installation with a working ``llvm``/`llvmdev` package. If you have a system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   installation with a working ``llvm``/``llvmdev`` package. If you have a system
```

   LLVM that's of an appropriate version you could use that. See
   https://llvmlite.readthedocs.io/en/latest/admin-guide/install.html#building-manually
   and in particular note the use of the ``LLVM_CONFIG`` environment variable
   for specifying where your LLVM install is.

> 

Reviewer: This section and the next `What not to do...` section seem to conflict? This section suggests that if you have a system LLVM that's appropriate you could use it, but the next suggests to not use a package managed one (i.e. system). Perhaps the next second should be called "What to be aware of if using a system provided LLVM" and note that a) might not work b) unlikely patches in a way all the tests will pass c) may be harder to get help.

Author: OK, I have reworded the section, please take another look.

Reviewer: Great, thanks.

All components must be compiled in order to be used. And, since each component
on the stack depends on the previous one, you need to compile LLVM in order to
compile llvmlite in order to compile Numba. The LLVM package is a significant
size and may take significant time (magnitude, roughly an hour) and skill to
compile depending on the platform.

Pre-built binaries
==================

> As mentioned above, building LLVM for llvmlite is challenging. Installing a binary

Reviewer: line wrap?

Author: sure

    FileNotFoundError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'llvm-config'

Things to "fix" it...
.....................

1. If you are using ``pip < 19.0`` and on ``x86*``, then update it if you can, this will
   let you use the ``manylinux2010`` binary wheels.

2. If you are on an unsupported architecture, for example Raspberry Pi, please
   use ``conda`` if you have that available.

3. Otherwise: you will probably need to build from source, this means providing
   an LLVM. If you have conda available you could use this to bootstrap the
   installation with a working ``llvm``/``llvmdev`` package. Learn more about
   compiling from source in the section on `Building manually`_ below.
   and in particular note the use of the ``LLVM_CONFIG`` environment variable
   for specifying where your LLVM install is.

> What to be aware of when using a pre-built LLVM package
> .......................................................

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What to be aware of when using a system provided LLVM package.
..............................................................
```
I think `pre-built` would include one from e.g. `conda`?

When using a system provided LLVM package, there are a number of things that
could go wrong:

> 1. The LLVM package may not work with Numba/llvmlite at all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The LLVM package may not work with Numba/llvmlite at all.
```

> 2. If it does it is unlikely the carry the correct patches for Numba/llvmlite
>    to work appropriately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If it does work to some degree it is unlikely the carry the correct patches
   for Numba/llvmlite to work entirely correctly.
```
